URL: https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/psychotherapies
SOURCE: www.nimh.nih.gov
SECTION: What are the elements of psychotherapy?
START: 2308
END: 3729

What are the elements of psychotherapy?
A variety of psychotherapies have been shown to effectively treat mental health disorders. Often, the type of treatment is tailored to the specific disorder. For example, the treatment approach for someone who has obsessive-compulsive disorder is different than the approach for someone who has bipolar disorder. Therapists may use one primary approach or incorporate elements from multiple approaches depending on their training, the disorder being treated, and the needs of the person receiving treatment.

Elements of psychotherapy can include the following:

Help a person become aware of automatic ways of thinking that are inaccurate or harmful (for example, having a low opinion of their abilities) and then question those thoughts, understand how the thoughts affect their emotions and behavior, and change self-defeating behavior patterns. This approach is known as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).
Identify ways to cope with stress and develop problem-solving strategies.
Examine interactions with others and teach social and communication skills.
Apply mindfulness and relaxation techniques, such as meditation and breathing exercises.
Use exposure therapy (a type of CBT) for anxiety disorders, in which a person spends brief periods in a supportive environment learning to tolerate the distress caused by certain items, ideas, or imagined scenes. This is continued until, over time, the fear associated with those things goes down.
Track emotions and behaviors to raise awareness of their impact on each other.
Use supportive counseling to explore troubling issues and receive emotional support.
Create a safety plan to help with thoughts of self-harm or suicide, recognize warning signs, and use coping strategies, such as contacting friends, family, or emergency personnel.