URL: https://www.scielo.br/j/reeusp/a/MH33CqQw6HRs7tsFDrwyWdr/?lang=en
SOURCE: www.scielo.br
SECTION: RESULTS: Pre-Intervention Phase - Nurses' Knowledge
START: 12977
END: 14925

RESULTS
Fourteen nurses participated in the research, 85.7% (12) of whom were female, with a predominant age range of 31 to 40 years (71.4%), and time of experience of 12 to 16 years (49.9%). Specialization course in mental health represented 21.4%. No courses held by the Health Department were reported. Chart 1 below demonstrates the sociodemographic and professional characteristics investigated.

 Thumbnail
Chart 1
Sociodemographic and professional characteristics of participants - Uberaba, MG, Brazil, 2025.
PRE-INTERVENTION PHASE
In the pre-intervention phase, the prior competencies of PHC nurses in providing nursing care to women with signs of PPD were assessed in light of Philippe Perrenoud’s competency theory(17). From the first assessment, prior to the intervention, but focusing on the proposed theory(17), three categories emerged that demonstrated the applicability of the theory(17) to the study: Nurses’ knowledge about PPD, Nurses’ skills in caring for women with signs of PPD, and Nurses’ attitudes in caring for women with signs of PPD.

NURSES’ KNOWLEDGE OF PPD
A priori, the interviewees were able to identify some indicators of PPD based on “maternal behavior”, where the main behaviors observed stood out, such as: problems with breastfeeding, maternal inattention, perception of a weaker mother-baby bond, silence of the puerperal woman, a look of demotivation, and the presence of sunken eyes. However, other situations of the disease were less understood or emphasized by them.

If you are experiencing symptoms of sadness, right? Depression, anxiety, if it’s... how is this bond between mother and baby? (E04)

If she is able to breastfeed her newborn, breastfeed her child and that, that is a factor, if she has not been able to breastfeed (E08)

[...] sometimes the mother, very unmotivated, looks very deeply, without reaction [...] the mother is there completely disconnected [...] (E12)

[...] which may have a change in her sleeping pattern, her eating habits, a change in her feelings towards the child as well, she may lose interest in activities she used to enjoy, emotional changes, irritability, become very tearful, you know? [...] (E07)

Additionally, nurses reported limited knowledge and a lack of specific training on PPD, with their search for knowledge occurring mainly in response to an immediate need, which leads to a reactive attitude towards professional care. Other topics are also undervalued by nurses, such as “Hormonal changes”, “Baby blues”, and “Consequences of postpartum depression”, which indicates a limited focus on these topics.