URL: https://www.scielo.br/j/reeusp/a/MH33CqQw6HRs7tsFDrwyWdr/?lang=en
SOURCE: www.scielo.br
SECTION: DISCUSSION: Intervention Impact on Knowledge and Symptom Identification
START: 20457
END: 22268

DISCUSSION
When relating Perrenoud’s theory(17) and the research theme, it is clear that professional skills favor the resolution of various setbacks in daily activities. When carrying out their activities, nurses need to link practice to acquired knowledge, skills, and attitudes. This fact was favorable in the evaluation of this research.

The educational intervention had a positive impact on the knowledge, skills, and attitudes of PHC nurses in light of the theoretical framework(17) adopted. The differences in the content analyses at the pre-intervention and post-intervention moments make the deficiencies in updating and/or knowledge on the topic before and the engagement and development of skills after the intervention clear.

After the educational intervention, the results demonstrated satisfactory improvements related to nurses’ skills in approaching women with PPD.

The training improved levels of understanding on the topic, with better understanding of the scales and how to use them for the early identification of PPD, which is in line with a study(22) evaluating the effect of training on PPD for nurses to determine their value in nursing practice. The results showed that there was a significant increase in knowledge and ability to provide health education about PPD to mothers, when compared with the results analyzed in the pre- and post-test.

Likewise, the educational intervention led to an improvement in the technical skills of nurses in relation to nursing care for women with signs of PPD. With attention focused on the warning signs and symptoms of the disease, nurses mentioned deep sadness, low self-esteem, lack of interest in self-care, isolation, lack of interest in baby care and breastfeeding, lack of social and family interaction, sleep disturbances, easy crying, and intrusive thoughts. Similar symptoms were found in a review study, with the most frequently cited symptoms being: mood swings, insomnia, sadness, and uncontrollable crying, headaches and body aches, feeling of being unable to care for the baby, fear of harming the baby, guilt, anxiety, panic attacks, and even suicidal ideation(23).