URL: https://www.scielo.br/j/reeusp/a/MH33CqQw6HRs7tsFDrwyWdr/?lang=en
SOURCE: www.scielo.br
SECTION: DISCUSSION: Enhanced Nursing Skills and Professional Development
START: 22270
END: 25150

Active and qualified listening by nurses in mental health care from prenatal care onwards was another practice improved after continuing health education, which indicates that nursing practice is more humanized and continuous. Better collaboration was also observed between nurses and other health professionals in approaching women with signs of PPD, with comprehensive attention to their physical, emotional, and social needs. The literature states that qualified active listening can improve the effective understanding of users’ real needs and improve the effectiveness of care. Furthermore, it allows for humanized care, strengthening the bond between the professional and the user, providing a more effective and decisive reception(24).

The home visit was also an enhanced activity and is seen in the literature as an opportunity for support and health education for postpartum women and their families. Studies show that women who receive home visits from health professionals are less likely to develop symptoms of postpartum depression, in addition to strengthening and encouraging better mother-baby interaction, which is essential for the well-being of both mother and baby(25). Moreover, emotional and social support to the postpartum women is considered significant protective factors against PPD(26). When professionals carry out home visits, there is an opportunity to screen for PPD in women who do not attend their postpartum appointment(25,27).

Another highlight refers to the multidisciplinary care, which had a significant improvement in the management and flow of care for women with PPD. The work of the multidisciplinary team is crucial to providing the necessary comprehensive support that meets the physical and emotional needs of mothers, through educational and psychotherapeutic interventions, providing well-being for both mother and baby(12,28, 29, 30, 31).

Another skill that showed improvement was health support and guidance, which must be clear and solve the doubts of the puerperal woman and her family. Similar findings in another study indicate that the nurses interviewed believe that health education is an important factor in preparing women for the postpartum period(32).

Studies show that training nurses results in more holistic and comprehensive patient care, reducing barriers to identifying and managing the disease by these professionals(33). In addition, women’s mental health-focused training allows for greater assurance and empowerment in the practices carried out by nurses, which makes the implementation of screening strategies and nursing interventions more effective(12).

Furthermore, a greater motivation to seek continuous knowledge on the topic was observed, as well as a more proactive and optimistic attitude towards managing the disease, after the educational intervention.

Finally, if left untreated, PPD clearly impacts maternal mental health in the postpartum period, with negative repercussions for both the woman and the family(34). Therefore, the importance of addressing this condition, which is a public health problem, is emphasized. Consequently, it is essential that municipal health departments develop a training program for PHC professionals, to support improvements in the care provided by the SUS, in accordance with the recommendations of the National Policy for Continuing Education in Health (Ordinance No. 198/GM of February 13, 2004)(35).