URL: https://www.scielo.br/j/reeusp/a/MH33CqQw6HRs7tsFDrwyWdr/?lang=en
SOURCE: www.scielo.br
SECTION: METHOD: Educational Intervention
START: 9914
END: 11846

EDUCATIONAL INTERVENTION
The planning and execution of the educational intervention were based on Philippe Perrenoud’s theory of competencies(17). According to the sociologist, developing professional skills means enabling individuals to act effectively in different everyday situations, knowing how to articulate knowledge, skills and attitudes to solve different problems(17).

Based on this theoretical framework, the educational intervention focused on theoretical and practical content regarding PPD: the arrival of a new baby and changes in the family context; concepts of PPD and baby blues; epidemiology; pathophysiology, signs and symptoms of the disease; serious outcomes; the impact of PPD on the health of the mother, baby, and family; public health policies focused on maternal mental health; PPD screening with validated scales; a support network for women with PPD; nursing competencies; and the flow of care for women with PPD in the municipality studied. The topics covered followed the proposed theory(17) with an emphasis on concepts, practices and contexts to innovate and improve professional skills.

Furthermore, to achieve the basic theory(17), situations were presented based on the daily nursing experiences and practices of PHC nurses, sharing experiences among professionals, always encouraging them to participate and jointly build the learning process.

Furthermore, the lectures and discussions were planned and implemented with the aim of encouraging the application of the acquired knowledge in several practical situations and varied contexts that could occur during nursing care for women with signs of PPD in primary health units. Also, nurses were encouraged to self-evaluate their care and what was recommended in the literature, with the aim of stimulating reflection on their skills, thus driving the continuous improvement of professional skills(17).

The educational intervention was led by four facilitators, three nurses and one psychologist, professionals with master’s degrees, doctorates, experience, and specialists in the area of mental health and/or women’s health, belonging to the research group of the federal university of the municipality.

The educational intervention was carried out collectively in four meetings lasting two hours each (2 pm to 4 pm), during the month of March 2024, two in person (meeting room of the municipal health department of the municipality) and two remote ones (Platform Google Meet). Between the first and second day of intervention there was an interval of two days, and from the second to the third day an interval of five days, and between the third and fourth an interval of two days. Presentations of slides via Power point, dynamics and computer were used. The research participants’ skills were assessed in the pre- and post-intervention phase using a qualitative analysis script (guiding questions) previously validated and evaluated in a pilot study.