URL: https://www.scielo.br/j/reeusp/a/MH33CqQw6HRs7tsFDrwyWdr/?lang=en
SOURCE: www.scielo.br
SECTION: RESULTS: Pre-Intervention Phase - Nurses' Skills and Attitudes
START: 14927
END: 16584

NURSES’ SKILLS IN NURSING CARE FOR WOMEN WITH PPD INDICATIONS
There was early identification, in the speeches, of signs and symptoms in routine care provided by nurses and other professionals, as well as the perception of the importance of multidisciplinary care, active listening, referral, and patient embracement.

When she comes back for the heel prick test, I always talk to her and ask how she is doing. How is breastfeeding going? I keep talking. There are some that I see that are just like this. (E03)

With us in the monitoring, sometimes in the vaccination room [...] So, identifying when this woman comes to the unit, we end up talking, right? Know how to identify and refer, when necessary. (E07)

[...]we schedule an appointment with a family doctor to advise whether she needs to see a psychiatrist, whether she can continue to be followed up here with us. (E07)

And so, I think our work tool is this listening, this embracement, I think that is fundamental, the main thing. (E13)

Also, the relevance of collaboration between the health team and the families of postpartum women in the perception of PPD signs and symptoms was identified. Furthermore, it is possible to perceive in the statements the importance of the active search carried out by community health agents through home visits, the need for training teams on the subject, and the lack of use of specific scales for screening PPD symptoms that could assist in care. The patient’s bond with the healthcare team was also mentioned as a strategy that enables the identification and management of PPD.

So it’s more when the mother or family comes to us. To talk about some sign that the mother is having. (E09)

Because when you go to the visit, we {the team} have a different perspective, but sometimes it can go unnoticed, and then we guide the family so that if necessary, if there is any change, try to seek out the unit. (E14)

So, the Community Health Agent sometimes brings us something, in relation to the house, family support, so it’s more in these situations. (E12)

[...] provide ongoing education for community agents so they can also be alert. (E09)

[...] train the team [...] (E07)

I don’t use any scales today in the consultation, no mental health scales [...] (E11)

Seek to have a bond with this pregnant woman throughout the prenatal period [...](E05)

I think the main care is constant monitoring (E05)

NURSES’ ATTITUDES TOWARDS NURSING CARE FOR WOMEN WITH INDICATIONS OF PPD
Within this main category, the following themes emerged: “Openness to training”, “Knowledge of the service flow”, “Desire to improve care” and “Team interest in the topic”. The nurses’ openness to training activities on the topic was noted.

[...] I believe there is an opening for exposing the topic, yes, because I see that we are on the team that really likes to learn and update ourselves; however, it is a topic with very little incidence [...] (E04)

Look, I think there is an opening. The professionals here [...] are very open to all types of training [...] (E06)