URL: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/postpartum-depression-screening/
SOURCE: medlineplus.gov
SECTION: Postpartum Depression Screening
START: 0
END: 1013

Skip navigation

An official website of the United States government

Here’s how you know
National Institutes of HealthNational Library of Medicine
MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for You
Search MedlinePlus
Search MedlinePlus
GO
About MedlinePlus What's New Site Map Customer Support
Health TopicsDrugs & SupplementsGeneticsMedical TestsMedical Encyclopedia
Español
You Are Here:Home → Medical Tests → Postpartum Depression Screening
Postpartum Depression Screening
Email this page to a friend Print Facebook X Pinterest
What is a postpartum depression screening?
Postpartum means "after birth." A postpartum depression screening is a set of questions you answer. Your health care provider uses the screening to help find out if you have developed depression related to having a baby.

Postpartum depression is different than the "baby blues." With the baby blues, you may feel sad, weepy, or anxious starting about three days after childbirth. These feelings tend to come and go, and usually get better on their own within a week or two. But postpartum depression is a serious mood disorder that may last for months and may not get better without treatment.

Symptoms of postpartum depression usually start between one to three weeks after birth. But they can begin anytime during the first year after your baby is born. The symptoms are more intense than the baby blues and may include extreme hopelessness and a lack of interest in the baby. Postpartum depression can affect your health and your baby's development, too.

Depression after birth is common, but it's not a regular part of having a baby. It may have more than one cause. Sudden changes in hormone levels that happen after a pregnancy may be involved. Lack of sleep, stress from new routines, and other changes may also play a role in triggering postpartum depression.

A postpartum depression screening helps diagnose the condition so it can be treated early. And early treatment can help prevent long-lasting depression. Most people get better with medicine and/or talk therapy. In the most serious cases, treatment may include brain stimulation therapies, such as electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), also called "shock therapy."