URL: https://www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-stages/prenatal/delivery-beyond/pages/Understanding-Motherhood-and-Mood-Baby-Blues-and-Beyond.aspx
SOURCE: www.healthychildren.org
SECTION: What if I'm worried about my partner's mental health?
START: 6101
END: 7228

What if I'm worried about my partner's mental health?
Partners get depressed, too, so if you see your mate suffering some of the same symptoms I've outlined here, please don't stay silent. The two of you are a team, both essential to your family's health. Your pediatrician or primary care doctor can help you find seeking care, whether it's for one or both of you.

What should I do if I'm experiencing dangerous thoughts?
If you are considering harming yourself or your baby, immediately call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 or 9-1-1. Don't wait, because these thoughts are a sign that you need expert help right now.

The National Maternal Mental Health Hotline is available 24/7 by calling 1-833-943-5746. And for non-emergency resources and support, you can contact Postpartum Support International. Call or text "Help" to 1-800-944-4773.

Remember
Your child's routine check-ups are an opportunity to talk with the pediatrician about how you are coping with new parenthood. However, don't hesitate reach out any time about feelings of sadness and anxiety after the birth of your baby.

More information
Ask the Pediatrician: Is it normal to feel completely overwhelmed after having a baby?
Infants, Families Affected By Parent's Perinatal Depression: AAP Policy Statement
About Dr. Sriraman
Natasha K. Sriraman, MD, MPH, FAAP is the author of Return to You: A Postpartum Plan for New Moms. She is a mother of 3 who has cared for thousands of children and families, sharing honest perspectives, medical guidance and sage advice to help parents navigate the intense changes that happen in the first few months after a baby arrives.


Last Updated 6/30/2022
Source American Academy of Pediatrics (Copyright © 2022)
The information contained on this Web site should not be used as a substitute for the medical care and advice of your pediatrician. There may be variations in treatment that your pediatrician may recommend based on individual facts and circumstances.
Follow Us
Contact UsAbout UsPrivacy PolicyTerms of UseEditorial Policy
© Copyright 2025 American Academy of Pediatrics. All rights reserved.
Back to Top