URL: https://www.marchofdimes.org/find-support/topics/postpartum/baby-blues-after-pregnancy
SOURCE: www.marchofdimes.org
SECTION: Baby Blues in Partners
START: 2991
END: 3832

Can your partner have the baby blues?

Yes. Up to 10 percent of partners can have feelings of sadness or depression after the birth of a baby. It happens most often during the first 3 to 6 months after the baby is born, but can develop up to a year afterward.

If your partner has the baby blues, they may:

Pull away and want to be alone
Feel angry, moody, cranky or anxious
Lose interest in work or favorite hobbies, or choose to work more
Get frustrated or sad
Feel hopeless or overwhelmed
Have trouble sleeping or making decisions
Lack of sleep, relationship problems or stress can also cause the baby blues. Male partners also may have the baby blues because of hormone changes during and after the baby is born. Testosterone levels may drop and estrogen levels may rise in new fathers. Other hormones, such as cortisol, vasopressin and prolactin, may rise. All of these hormone changes can cause depression.

What can you do about the baby blues?

The baby blues usually go away on their own without treatment. Here are some things you can do to feel better:

Get as much sleep as you can.
Ask for help from your partner, family and friends. Tell them exactly what they can do for you, such as going food shopping or watching the baby while you shower or sleep.
Take time for yourself. Ask someone you trust to watch your baby so you can get out of the house. Getting some sunshine can help, too.
Try to connect with other new parents. A support group can be helpful. This is a group of people who have the same concerns. They meet to try to help each other.
Don’t drink alcohol, use street drugs or abuse prescription drugs. All of these can affect your mood and make you feel worse. And they can make it hard for you to take care of your baby.
Eat healthy foods and get exercise if you can. Exercise can help reduce stress.
When should you call your health care provider?

Call your provider if you have any of the symptoms of baby blues or postpartum depression, especially if your symptoms:

Include thoughts of harming yourself or your baby
Don’t get better after two weeks
Get worse
Make it hard for you to take care of your baby
Make it hard to do everyday chores