URL: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/10.1080/01443615.2025.2553197?url_ver=Z39.88-2003&rfr_id=ori:rid:crossref.org&rfr_dat=cr_pub%20%200pubmed#abstract
SOURCE: www.tandfonline.com
SECTION: Methods
START: 8326
END: 11075

JOUrNAL OF Obstetrics AND GyNAecOLOGy 3
Methods
Design
this cross-sectional, multi-centre study is part of the swedish arm of the international survey of
childbirth-related trauma (iNtersect 2023).
Procedure
the study includes participants from five maternity clinics in southern sweden. the clinics were located
in cities of varying sizes and sociodemographic characteristics. the inclusion criteria were mothers aged
18 years or older who had given birth to a living baby between 6 and 16 weeks prior. Following ethical
and managerial approval, the authors screened for eligibility and subsequently received the personal
security numbers of all women who met the inclusion criteria. Out of all these women, 2000 were ran-
domly selected and sent an invitation letter to participate. the invitation letter contained information
about the study, a personal identification code, and a link to a digital online questionnaire. by entering
their personal code on the first page of the survey, participants provided their digital written informed
consent to participate in the study. A reminder, including a printed version of the questionnaire, was
sent to those who had not responded within three weeks. Participants who completed the printed ques-
tionnaire provided their written informed consent via a signed consent form. Data were collected
between september 2021 and January 2022.
the survey consisted of 116 questions, including sociodemographic and obstetric variables (age, par-
ity, mode of birth, educational level and income), a question on trauma history, and validated instru-
ments to measure PPD, PP-PtsD, PP-Ptss and PP-FOc. We obtained permissions to use the instruments
in this study.
Trauma history
Previous trauma was measured using the trauma checklist from the Post-traumatic stress Diagnostic
scale, which includes a range of traumatic events such as severe diseases, physical assault, sexual abuse,
experiences of military conflicts, childhood abuse, grave accidents and natural disasters (Foa et al. 1997).
Participants indicated whether they had experienced each trauma type prior to the current childbirth
and could add any self-defined trauma not listed on the scale.
in addition, trauma related specifically to previous childbirth experiences was assessed separately with
the question: ‘Did you experience the second/any of the other births as traumatic?’.