URL: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/10.1080/01443615.2025.2553197?url_ver=Z39.88-2003&rfr_id=ori:rid:crossref.org&rfr_dat=cr_pub%20%200pubmed#abstract
SOURCE: www.tandfonline.com
SECTION: Methods - Statistical Analyses
START: 13577
END: 16110

Statistical analyses
statistical analyses were performed using ibM sPss version 28.0 (Armonk, Ny). Occasional missing data
in the instruments were replaced using mean imputation. this approach was chosen because the pro-
portion of missing data was low, which helps minimise bias and preserve statistical power.
the sample size was determined based on a sub study within iNtersect, which aimed to validate the
citybits in a swedish context. For that validation study, a minimum of 250 participants was required to
ensure sufficient statistical power for psychometric analyses. Given a low expected response rate, a total
of 2000 participants were invited.
Prevalence rates of PPD, PP-PtsD and severe PP-FOc were compared between trauma-exposed partic-
ipants and those with no trauma history using chi-squared and Fisher’s exact tests. independent t-tests
assessed differences between trauma-exposed and non-exposed groups on numeric postnatal mental
health scales. statistical significance was set at p < .05.
Univariate and multiple regression analyses examined the impact of previous trauma and sociodemo-
graphic factors on postnatal illness. symptoms of PPD, Ptss and PP-FOc were used as continuous vari-
ables to capture the full range of symptom severity. Determinants with significant p values in the
univariate analysis were further analysed in multiple regression using an ‘enter’ model to identify inde-
pendent factors influencing postnatal illness. the following nominal variables were dichotomised for the
regression analyses: history of trauma (yes/no), previous childbirth (yes/no), higher education (university
degree) (yes/no) and being born outside sweden (yes/no). Age was treated as a continuous variable. to
assess multicollinearity among the independent variables included in the regression analyses, collinearity
diagnostics were conducted. All variables demonstrated acceptable tolerance values (>0.1) and variance
inflation factor (ViF) values below 5, indicating no significant multicollinearity, supporting the validity of
the regression model (Kim 2019).
the regression coefficients (β) indicate the average change in the outcome variable (PPD, PP-Ptss and
PP-FOc score) for every 1-unit change in the determinant while keeping all the other determinants constant.