URL: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/10.1080/01443615.2025.2553197?url_ver=Z39.88-2003&rfr_id=ori:rid:crossref.org&rfr_dat=cr_pub%20%200pubmed#abstract
SOURCE: www.tandfonline.com
SECTION: Header & Abstract
START: 0
END: 2503

Obstetrics
Journal of obstetrics and GynaecoloGy
2025, Vol. 45, no. 1, 2553197
Associations between history of trauma and postnatal mental
health problems – a cross-sectional study
Hanna Grundströma,b , Anna Malmquistc , Malin thorselld and Katri Nieminena
adepartment of obstetrics and Gynecology in norrköping, and department of biomedical and clinical sciences, linköping
university, linköping, sweden; bdepartment of Health, Medicine and caring sciences, linköping university, linköping,
sweden; cdepartment of behavioural sciences and learning, linköping university, linköping, sweden; ddepartment of
obstetrics, capio s:t Görans sjukhus, stockholm, sweden
ABSTRACT
Background: Pregnancy and childbirth are vulnerable periods for women’s mental
health, with common occurrences of postnatal depression (PPD), postpartum
post-traumatic stress symptoms (PP-Ptss) and postnatal severe fear of childbirth
(PP-FOc). While previous trauma is linked to higher rates of postpartum psychological
difficulties, the mechanisms and variations by parity and sociodemographic factors
remain poorly understood. the aim of this study was to compare the prevalence of PPD
symptoms, postnatal post-traumatic stress disorder (PP-PtsD), PP-Ptss and PP-FOc
between women with a history of trauma and those without. Additionally, the study
aimed to analyse the prevalence of previous trauma and postnatal mental health
problems in subgroups of primi- and multiparous women, and to investigate how
trauma influenced mental health in relation to sociodemographic characteristics.
Methods: this was a cross-sectional study including 619 women who had given birth
at five maternity clinics in sweden. Data for the survey were collected online using
validated instruments to measure PPD, PP-PtsD, PP-Ptss and PP-FOc. Data were
analysed using chi-squared tests, independent t-tests and uni- and multivariable
regression.
Results: Women with a trauma history (n = 298) showed significantly higher rates of
PPD (26% vs. 13%) and PtsD (5% vs. 2%) than those without a trauma history (n = 321).
Previous trauma, age and parity significantly influenced postnatal outcomes, with
trauma having the most substantial impact.
Conclusions: A history of trauma is correlated to higher risk of postpartum mental
health problems, while previous births may offer some protection, especially against
PP-Ptss and PP-FOc. early identification and targeted support for women with trauma
histories are recommended.
PLAIN LANGUAGE SUMMARY
this study looked at how traumatic experiences earlier in life may be correlated to a
woman’s mental health after giving birth. We compared how common depression,
stress and fear of childbirth were among women with and without a history of trauma.
We also examined whether factors like age and if it was the woman’s first baby made
a difference for mental health.
the study included 619 women from five maternity clinics in sweden. After giving
birth, the women answered online questions about how they were feeling mentally
and emotionally. the results showed that women who had experienced trauma in the
past were more likely to feel depressed or stressed after giving birth than those who
had not.
the study also found that younger women and first-time mothers were at higher risk
for mental health problems after childbirth, especially if they had a history of trauma.
these women may need extra care and support during pregnancy and after the baby
is born.