URL: https://journals.lww.com/nohe/fulltext/2025/07000/preventive_effects_of_light_music_on_postpartum.7.aspx
SOURCE: journals.lww.com
SECTION: References and Footer
START: 34698
END: 37575

References
1. Screening and diagnosis of mental health conditions during pregnancy and postpartum: ACOG clinical practice guideline no. 4. Obstet Gynecol 2023;141:1232–61.
Cited Here | Google Scholar
2. Gopalan P, Spada ML, Shenai N, et al. Postpartum depression-identifying risk and access to intervention. Curr Psychiatry Rep 2022;24:889–96.
Cited Here | Google Scholar
3. Cho H, Lee K, Choi E, et al. Association between social support and postpartum depression. Sci Rep 2022;12:3128.
View full references list
Keywords:
music therapy; anxiety; depression; postpartum; primiparity

© 2025 Noise & Health
Related Articles
Impact of Hospital Ward Acoustic Design on Postoperative Recovery of Patients with Acute Myocardial Infarction
Effects of Non-Steady-State Noise on Pain, Anxiety and Stress Indicators in Patients Waiting for Coronary Angiography
Effect of Vibroacoustic Therapy Combined with Baduanjin Exercise on the Cardiac Function and Psychological State of Patients with Coronary Heart Disease
Effects of Operating Room Noise on Anxiety and Pain in Non-General Anaesthesia Orthopaedic Surgery under Seamless Care and Diversified Health Education
Effects of Five-Element Music Therapy Combined with Relaxation Therapy on the Recovery of Elderly Patients with Unstable Angina Pectoris Following Percutaneous Coronary Intervention
Effect of White Noise Combined with Cognitive Behavioral Therapy on Anxiety and Depression Disorder among College Students: A Retrospective Analysis
Most Popular
A Comprehensive Review of Auditory and Non-Auditory Effects of Noise on Human Health
Low Frequency Noise and Annoyance
How are Eastern European Countries Addressing Environmental Noise Issues? A Post-conference Expert Discussion
Mental health effects of exposure to environmental noise at home: A systematic review of potential mediating pathways
Noise Pollution in Intensive Care Unit
Back to Top
Current Issue Cover Image
Never Miss an Issue
Get new journal Tables of Contents sent right to your email inbox
Type your email
Get New Issue Alerts
Browse Journal Content
Register on the website
Get eTOC Alerts
Customer Service
Browse the help center
Submit a Service Request
800-638-3030 (within the USA)
301-223-2300 (outside of the USA)
Manage Cookie Preferences
Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Terms of Use Open Access Policy Your California Privacy Choices California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Opt-Out Icon
Copyright © 2025 Noise and Health | Published by Wolters Kluwer - Medknow | Content use for text and data mining and artificial intelligence training is not permitted.