URL: https://womenshealth.gov/mental-health/mental-health-conditions/postpartum-depression
SOURCE: womenshealth.gov
SECTION: What can happen if postpartum depression is not treated?
START: 6210
END: 7489

Having depression can affect your baby. Getting treatment is important for you and your baby. Getting help is a sign of strength.

What can happen if postpartum depression is not treated?
Untreated postpartum depression can affect your ability to parent. You may:

Not have enough energy
Have trouble focusing on the baby's needs and your own needs
Feel moody
Not be able to care for your baby
Have a higher risk of attempting suicide
Feeling bad about yourself can make depression worse. It is important to reach out for help if you feel depressed.

Researchers believe postpartum depression in a mother can affect the healthy development of her child which can cause:7

Delays in language development and problems learning
Problems with mother-child bonding
Behavior problems
More crying or agitation
Shorter height8 and higher risk of obesity in pre-schoolers9
Problems dealing with stress and adjusting to school and other social situations10
Did we answer your question about postpartum depression?
The resources below can help you learn more about PPD and can guide you in finding additional help.

Call or text the Suicide and Crisis Lifeline at 988 for free access to a trained crisis counselor who can provide you with support and connect you with additional help and resources. If you’re deaf or hard of hearing, use your preferred relay service or dial 711 then 988.
Call or text the National Maternal Mental Health Hotline at 1-833-TLC-MAMA (1-833-852-6262) for 24/7 free access to professional counselors. If you’re deaf or hard of hearing, use your preferred relay service or dial 711 then 1-833-852-6262.
Call or text “Help” to the Postpartum Support International helpline at 1-800-944-4773 for PPD information, resources, and support groups for women, partners, and supporters.
Local resources can be identified in many ways:
Ask a health care professional or find a local health center.
Reach out to local organizations like social service agencies, family resource centers, libraries, community centers, or places of worship.
Look for support groups in your area, such as new moms’ groups, breastfeeding support groups, or a baby café. See if there are mother/baby exercise programs in your community.