URL: https://womenshealth.gov/mental-health/mental-health-conditions/postpartum-depression
SOURCE: womenshealth.gov
SECTION: What causes postpartum depression?
START: 2985
END: 4256

What causes postpartum depression?
The exact cause of PPD is not known and many different factors are likely to contribute to someone developing PPD. Hormonal changes may trigger symptoms of postpartum depression. When you are pregnant, levels of the female hormones estrogen and progesterone are the highest they’ll ever be. In the first 24 hours after childbirth, hormone levels quickly drop back to normal, pre-pregnancy levels. Researchers think this sudden change in hormone levels may lead to depression.2  This is similar to hormone changes before a woman’s period but involves much more extreme swings in hormone levels.

Levels of thyroid hormones may also drop after giving birth. The thyroid is a small gland in the neck that helps regulate how your body uses and stores energy from food. Low levels of thyroid hormones can cause symptoms of depression. A simple blood test can tell whether this condition is causing your symptoms. If so, your doctor can prescribe thyroid medicine.

Are some women more at risk of postpartum depression?
Yes. You may be more at risk of postpartum depression if you:

Had depression before or during pregnancy
Have a family history of depression
Experienced abuse or adversity as a child
Had a difficult or traumatic birth
Had problems with a previous pregnancy or birth
Have little or no support from family, friends, or partners
If you are now or have experienced domestic violence
Have relationship struggles, money problems, or experience other stressful life events
Are under the age of 20
Have a hard time breastfeeding
Have a baby that was born prematurely and/or has special health care needs
Had an unplanned pregnancy
The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends that doctors look for and ask about symptoms of depression during and after pregnancy, regardless of a woman’s risk of depression.4