URL: https://womenshealth.gov/mental-health/mental-health-conditions/postpartum-depression
SOURCE: womenshealth.gov
SECTION: What can I do at home to feel better while seeing a doctor for postpartum depression?
START: 5177
END: 6210

What can I do at home to feel better while seeing a doctor for postpartum depression?
Here are some ways to begin feeling better or getting more rest, in addition to talking to a health care professional:

Rest as much as you can. Sleep when the baby is sleeping.
Don’t try to do too much or to do everything by yourself. Ask your partner, family, and friends for help.
Make time to go out, visit friends, or spend time alone with your partner.
Talk about your feelings with your partner, supportive family members, and friends.
Talk with other mothers so that you can learn from their experiences.
Join a support group. Ask your doctor or nurse about groups in your area.
Don’t make any major life changes right after giving birth. More major life changes in addition to a new baby can cause unneeded stress. Sometimes big changes can’t be avoided. When that happens, try to arrange support and help in your new situation ahead of time.
It can also help to have a partner, a friend, or another caregiver who can help take care of the baby while you are depressed. If you are feeling depressed during pregnancy or after having a baby, don’t suffer alone. Tell a loved one and call your doctor right away.

How is postpartum depression treated?
Working with a health care professional is a good way to create a plan that will work for you. Here are some ways to get help—they can be used alone or together:

Therapy: Counseling or therapy sessions with a mental health professional can help you understand and cope with your emotions and challenges.
Support groups: Joining a support group of others experiencing PPD can provide comfort and understanding.
Self-care: Taking care of yourself is important. Do your best to get enough rest, eat food with a lot of nutrients like fresh produce and whole grains, be physically active, and ask for help when needed.
Social support: Reach out to family, friends, or other people you trust who can offer advice or support.
Medication: In some cases, medicine may be prescribed to help manage symptoms. The most common type is antidepressants. Antidepressants can help relieve symptoms of depression and some can be taken while you're breastfeeding. Antidepressants may take several weeks to start working.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has also approved a medicine called brexanolone to treat postpartum depression in adult women.6 Brexanolone is given by a doctor or nurse through an IV for 2½ days (60 hours). Because of the risk of side effects, this medicine can only be given in a clinic or office while you are under the care of a doctor or nurse. Brexanolone may not be safe to take while pregnant or breastfeeding. Zuranolone, the first oral medication approved to treat postpartum depression may be another option.
These treatments can be used alone or together. Talk with your doctor or nurse about the benefits and risks of taking medicine to treat depression when you are pregnant or breastfeeding.