URL: https://medlineplus.gov/antidepressants.html
SOURCE: medlineplus.gov
SECTION: Start Here
START: 1260
END: 2057

Start Here
Antidepressants: Selecting One That's Right for You (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
How to Safely Take Antidepressants (American Academy of Family Physicians)
Mental Health Medications From the National Institutes of Health (National Institute of Mental Health)
Diagnosis and Tests
Cytochrome P450 (CYP450) Tests (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Pharmacogenetic Tests From the National Institutes of Health (National Library of Medicine)
Also in Spanish
Tricyclic Antidepressant (TCA) Screen From the National Institutes of Health (National Library of Medicine)
Also in Spanish
Treatments and Therapies
8 Things To Know about Depression and Complementary Health Approaches From the National Institutes of Health (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
St. John's Wort and Depression From the National Institutes of Health (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
Living With
MAOIs and Diet: Is It Necessary to Restrict Tyramine? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Related Issues
Antidepressant Withdrawal: Is There Such a Thing? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Antidepressants and Alcohol: What's the Concern? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Antidepressants and Weight Gain: What Causes It? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Antidepressants: Another Weapon against Chronic Pain (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Antidepressants: Can They Stop Working? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Antidepressants: Get Tips to Cope with Side Effects (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Antidepressants: Which Cause the Fewest Sexual Side Effects? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Migraine Medications and Antidepressants: A Risky Mix? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Specifics
Atypical Antidepressants (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Serotonin and Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors (SNRIs) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Tricyclic Antidepressants and Tetracyclic Antidepressants (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Genetics
Depression: MedlinePlus Genetics From the National Institutes of Health (National Library of Medicine)
Clinical Trials
ClinicalTrials.gov: Antidepressants From the National Institutes of Health (National Institutes of Health)
ClinicalTrials.gov: Serotonin and Noradrenaline Reuptake Inhibitors From the National Institutes of Health (National Institutes of Health)
Journal Articles
References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National Library of Medicine)
Article: Vortioxetine Improves Brain Glymphatic System Function, Functional Connectivity, and Cognitive Functions... 
Article: Measurement-Based Care to Enhance Antidepressant Treatment Outcomes in Major Depressive Disorder:... 
Article: Lumateperone as Adjunctive Therapy in Patients With Major Depressive Disorder: Results... 
Antidepressants -- see more articles 
Find an Expert
NAMI 
National Institute of Mental Health From the National Institutes of Health
Also in Spanish
Children
Antidepressants for Children and Teens (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Women
Antidepressants: Safe during Pregnancy? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Depression Medicines (Food and Drug Administration)
Patient Handouts
Depression - stopping your medicines (Medical Encyclopedia)
Also in Spanish
Topic Image
Antidepressants
MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA
Amitriptyline and perphenazine overdose
Amitriptyline hydrochloride overdose
Depression - stopping your medicines
Desipramine hydrochloride overdose
Doxepin overdose
Imipramine overdose
Serotonin syndrome
Trazodone overdose
Related Health Topics
Depression
National Institutes of Health
The primary NIH organization for research on Antidepressants is the National Institute of Mental Health
NIH MedlinePlus Magazine
Commonly Prescribed Antidepressants and How They Work
Disclaimers
MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external links and our quality guidelines.
The information on this site should not be used as a substitute for professional medical care or advice. Contact a health care provider if you have questions about your health.

Learn how to cite this page
Was this page helpful?
YesNo
Subscribe to RSSRSS Connect with NLM
NLM Web Policies Copyright Accessibility Guidelines for Links Viewers & Players HHS Vulnerability Disclosure MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs For Developers
National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health
Last updated March 17, 2025